docs(operator): migration guide from kgo 1.6.x to ko 2.0 (#2796)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/operator/migrate/konnectextension-konnectid-to-konnectgatewaycontrolplane.md

    ```

2. **Create a KonnectGatewayControlPlane in Mirror Mode**

    Next, create a `KonnectGatewayControlPlane` resource in your cluster that mirrors the same Konnect control plane you previously referenced with `konnectID`. This enables the new reference type required by KO 2.0.

     Example manifest:
     ```yaml
     kind: KonnectGatewayControlPlane
     apiVersion: konnect.konghq.com/v1alpha1
     metadata:
    	 name: gateway-control-plane
    	 namespace: kong
     spec:
    	 source: Mirror
    	 mirror:
    		 konnect:
    			 id: 6f7c4caa-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX
    	 konnect:
    		 authRef:
    			 name: konnect-api-auth
    ```
 
3. **Verify KonnectGatewayControlPlane Reconciliation**

    After applying the resource, check that the operator has reconciled the `KonnectGatewayControlPlane` correctly by running:

    ```bash
    kubectl get konnectgatewaycontrolplanes.konnect.konghq.com -n kong
    ```

    You should see output similar to:

    ```
    NAME                    PROGRAMMED   ID                                     ORGID
    gateway-control-plane   True         6f7c4caa-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX   82dc54ec-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX 
    ```
 

>  4. **Create a New KonnectExtension Referencing the KonnectGatewayControlPlane**
>  
>      Because the `ref` field in the `KonnectExtension` resource is immutable, you cannot update the existing resource to reference the new control plane. Instead, you must create a new `KonnectExtension` that references the `KonnectGatewayControlPlane` you created in the previous step.
>     
>      Example manifest:
>      ```yaml
>      kind: KonnectExtension
>      apiVersion: konnect.konghq.com/v1alpha1
>      metadata:
>     	 name: my-konnect-config-1
>     	 namespace: kong
>      spec:
>     	 konnect:
>     		 controlPlane:
>     			 ref:
>     				 type: konnectNamespacedRef
>     				 konnectNamespacedRef:
>     					 name: gateway-control-plane
>      ```
>     
>      Apply the new resource:
>      ```bash
>      kubectl apply -f <your-new-konnectextension-file>.yaml
>      ```
>     
>      Verify that the new extension is programmed:
>      ```bash
>      kubectl get konnectextensions.konnect.konghq.com -n kong
>      ```
>      You should see output similar to:
>      ```
>      NAME                  READY
>      my-konnect-config     True
>      my-konnect-config-1   True
>      ```
>      You will see both the old and new extensions listed. The new one should be ready before proceeding.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
### Create a new `KonnectExtension` referencing the `KonnectGatewayControlPlane`
 
Because the `ref` field in the `KonnectExtension` resource is immutable, you can't update the existing resource to reference the new control plane. Instead, you must create a new `KonnectExtension` that references the `KonnectGatewayControlPlane` you created in the previous step.
    
1. Create a new `KonnectExtension` that references the `KonnectGatewayControlPlane` you created in the previous step. For example:
{% capture extension %}
```yaml
kind: KonnectExtension
apiVersion: konnect.konghq.com/v1alpha1
metadata:
   name: my-konnect-config-1
   namespace: kong
     spec:
    	 konnect:
    		 controlPlane:
    			 ref:
    				 type: konnectNamespacedRef
    				 konnectNamespacedRef:
    					 name: gateway-control-plane
```
{% endcapture %}
{{ extension | indent: 3 }}
    
1. Apply the new resource:
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f $YOUR_NEW_KONNECTEXTENSION_FILE.yaml
   ```

1. Verify that the new extension is programmed:
    ```bash
    kubectl get konnectextensions.konnect.konghq.com -n kong
    ```
    You should see output similar to the following:
    ```
    NAME                  READY
     my-konnect-config     True
     my-konnect-config-1   True
     ```
     {:.no-copy-code}

     You will see both the old and new extensions listed. Make sure the new one is ready before proceeding.
````

> 5. **Update the Dataplane Resource to Reference the New KonnectExtension**
> 
>     Update your DataPlane resource to reference the newly created `KonnectExtension` (`my-konnect-config-1`).
> 
>     **Before:**
>     ```yaml
>     ...
>     spec:
>     	extensions:
>     	- kind: KonnectExtension
>     		name: my-konnect-config
>     		group: konnect.konghq.com
>     ...
>     ```
> 
>     **After:**
>     ```yaml
>     ...
>     spec:
>     	extensions:
>     	- kind: KonnectExtension
>     		name: my-konnect-config-1
>     		group: konnect.konghq.com
>     ...
>     ```
> 
>     This change ensures your DataPlane is now using the new KonnectExtension and is compatible with the upgraded control plane. 
> 
>     Once you update the DataPlane resource, the operator will perform a rolling update. A new DataPlane pod will be created referencing the new KonnectExtension. When the new pod is ready, the old pod will be removed automatically. You can observe this transition in your Konnect control plane UI or by watching the pods in your namespace:
> 
>     ```bash
>     kubectl get pods -n kong
>     ```
> 
>     This ensures zero downtime and a smooth migration to the new configuration.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
### Update the `DataPlane` Resource to reference the new `KonnectExtension`

Update your `DataPlane` resource to reference the newly created `KonnectExtension` (`my-konnect-config-1`).

For example, your `DataPlane` resource will look something like the following before it's updated:
```yaml
...
spec:
  extensions:
    - kind: KonnectExtension
       name: my-konnect-config
       group: konnect.konghq.com
...
```

After you've updated it, it will look like the following:
```yaml
...
spec:
   extensions:
    - kind: KonnectExtension
       name: my-konnect-config-1
       group: konnect.konghq.com
...
```

This ensures your `DataPlane` is now using the new `KonnectExtension` and is compatible with the upgraded control plane. 

    Once you update the `DataPlane` resource, the operator will perform a rolling update. A new `DataPlane` pod will be created referencing the new `KonnectExtension`. When the new pod is ready, the old pod will be removed automatically. You can observe this transition in your {{site.konnect_short_name}} control plane UI or by watching the pods in your namespace:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n kong
```

This ensures zero downtime and a smooth migration to the new configuration.
````

> 6. **Clean Up the Old KonnectExtension**
> 
>     After confirming that your DataPlane is running successfully with the new KonnectExtension, you can safely remove the old `KonnectExtension` instance that was using the deprecated `konnectID` field:
>     
>     ```bash
>     kubectl delete konnectextensions.konnect.konghq.com -n kong my-konnect-config
>     ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
### Clean up the old `KonnectExtension`

After confirming that your data plane is running successfully with the new `KonnectExtension`, you can safely remove the old `KonnectExtension` instance that was using the deprecated `konnectID` field:

```bash
kubectl delete konnectextensions.konnect.konghq.com -n kong my-konnect-config
```
````
